# Control variable scope and logic using code blocks in `C#`

## Knowledge check - <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/training/modules/csharp-code-blocks/6-knowledge-check>

1. **Which of the following statements is true about showing/removing the curly braces for code blocks associated with an `if` statement?**

   - `The curly braces can't be removed from the code block for else if and else statements.`
     > Incorrect. The curly braces can be removed from the `else if` and `else` statements if the contents of the code block contains a single line of code and if all associated `if`, `else if`, and `else` code blocks only have one line of code and the curly braces removed. All components of that `if-elseif-else` must be consistent in the use of curly braces.
   - `If the curly braces are removed from the code blocks of an if-elseif-else, the white space must also be removed.`
     > Incorrect. The `if` statement can be separated from the next line of code. Always choose the option that is more readable.
   - `Always choose a style that improves readability.`
     > **Correct**! Code readability should always be a consideration when deciding whether to remove the curly braces from the code blocks associated with an `if` statement.

2. **A developer writes some code that includes an `if` statement code block. They initialize a first integer variable to a value of 1 above (outside) of the code block. The Boolean expression for the `if` statement code block evaluates to `true` if the first integer variable has a value greater than 0. The first code line inside of the code block is used to initialize a second integer variable to a value of 8. The second code line inside the code block is used to assign the sum of the two integer values to the first variable. The first code line after the code block is used to display the value of the first integer variable. What is the result when the code is executed?**

   - `No error is generated and the integer value 9 is displayed.`
     > **Correct**! Since the first integer is initialized above the `if` statement code, it's still in-scope after the code block. Also, since both integers are in-scope and initialized with values inside the code block, the addition of the values executes correctly. Finally, even though the second integer doesn't exist outside of the code block, the first integer retains any changes to its value that occurred inside the code block.
   - `No error is generated and the integer value 1 is displayed.`
     > Incorrect. The code inside the code block is executed. The first integer contains the sum of the two integers and is still in-scope after the code block.
   - `An error is generated because the first variable is not in-scope after the code block.`
     > Incorrect. No error is generated. The first variable was initialized above the code block and still is in-scope both inside and after the code block.

3. **A developer writes some code that includes an `if` statement code block. They initialize a first integer variable to a value of 5 above (outside) of the code block. The Boolean expression for the `if` statement code block evaluates to `true` if the first integer variable has a value greater than 0. The first code line inside of the code block is used to initialize a second integer variable to a value of 6. The first code line after the code block is used to add the second integer value to the value of the first integer. The second code line after the code block is used to display the value of the first integer. What is the result when they run the code?**

   - `No error is generated and the integer value 11 is displayed.`
     > Incorrect. An error occurs when the code is run.
   - `An error is generated by the code line used to display the integer value.`
     > Incorrect. An error occurs before code execution reaches the statement used to display the integer value.
   - `A build error is generated by the code line used to sum the two integers.`
     > **Correct**! A build error is generated by the code that sums the two integers. The error tells you that the second variable does not exist in the current context. The second variable is not in-scope outside the code block.
